To see it in action, I'm back in our rest API project we created earlier where we previously added socket.io
.
and first of all, I'll get rid of that socket.io part, I'll remove it, I'll remove the socket in js
file, in app.js I will also remove my routes because we will have no more routes, we'll not set
up routes anymor, we'll use graphql endpoints instead.
I'll leave the rest as it is for now,
remove that code where I use my routes
and then here I will not store the server because I will not setup any socket.io connection
and we can also now remove the routes folder because we'll not use that anymore.
So now I clean that up a little bit and now I want to use graphql and for that I'll install two
new packages.
The first one is called just graphql,
this will be required for defining the schema of our graphql
service,
so basically the definition of the queries and mutations and so on
we want to allow
and I will also add express graphql to install a simple server that will do the parsing of incoming
requests and so on.
Now if you want to learn more about graphql, check out graphql.org,
it's a great resource with a lot of documentation on graphql and its query language which by the way
is clearly defined
and we need a strong ruleset to know how we write queries and there if you click on code, you also find
libraries for all kinds of languages
and if you choose javascript, you'll find the graphql package we just installed which allows us
to define such a schema as I mentioned.
You'll find the express graphql and you also find other solutions for other frameworks, Apollo
for example is super popular and works with any node framework,
it offers more than the barebone setup express graphql
gives us though and I want to show you a very raw approach in this module so that you understand
all the behind the scenes things, Apollo would hide some of these things,
so I will instead use express graphql.
Now with that out of the way, we installed that, we cleaned up our project,
now let's add some graphql logic
and how do we do that?
First of all I'll create a new folder named graphql where I will put my graphql related code and
there, I'll add my schema.js file where I define the queries, mutations and types I work with in my
graphql service I'll create and I'll add a resolvers.js file where I will define the logic that
is then executed for incoming queries.
Now in schema.js, let's start with that, there
I'll first of all import something from that graphql package I installed, not from express graphql but
just graphql
and that something I import is the build schema function which allows me to build a schema which can
then be parsed by graphql and by express graphql. I will export this schema so I'll use module exports
and then I will call the build schema function and I will return that schema object
this will generate for me
and now here we pass a string where we describe our schema. Use double backticks here,
so not single quotation marks but backticks to create a string literal, a template literal because there
you can simply write multiline strings.
And now to define a graphql schema in this string, we type schema and add curly braces,
please note that there is no colon after schema and in that schema we now define a query field
and this now will be an object with all the queries and queries are the parts where you get data,
so all the queries you want to allow. To make that easier to read,
I'll now add a separate type for that with the type keyword which I'll name query, you could name this
differently, you name this root query, however you want. Now in there, you will have all the different queries
you can make in the end,
for example you can add one that is named hello,
simply a basic dummy query here, hello which let's say returns a string.
This is how you define the return type for a query,
you add a colon after the query name and then the type and graphql knows a couple of types, strings,
integers, floats, booleans, IDs and you can learn all about that in the official docs of course.
So now this is my root query and this is the return type of my query here,
this is now a very basic schema where we can send a hello query to get back some text.
Now that some text now is the defined in the resolver, the resolver is an exported object where we now need
a hello function, a
hello method,
so you need a method for every query or mutation
you define in your schema and the name has to match of course,
I have a method named hello here because here I have a query named hello.
You don't need a resolver for this query because in your schema, you basically setup your root query which
is then made up of these sub-queries which now need resolvers.
So now we have a resolver for hello, that hello method and there we need to return a string,
right,
we expect the string, you can by the way make this string required by adding an exclamation mark.
Now if you don't return a string, you'll get an error.
So here I could return hello world like this, if I now save that I have a very simple graphql service.
Now before we test it, let's make it a little bit more complex, in my schema
I'll add a new type and I'll name that test data,
the name is up to you and there I'll have a text which is a string and I'll have a views property
which is like say an integer.
Both are required,
please note there is no comma after these fields,
you simply use new lines
and now let's say my hello query should return that test data instead of a boring string. Well then we
can go back to the resolver
and now we need to return an object in there with a text field that should be a string,
hello world
and with a views field which should be an integer.
Now we have a valid resolver,
we have a valid schema,
now we need to expose it to the public and that can be done with the express graphql package. In app.js,
we now import that,
so here I'll import graphql http,
you can name this however you want from express graphql and let's now scroll down all the way to
the error handling middleware and there let's add another middleware so that all the other middlewares do apply and here
I will apply this to /graphql and you could change that
but that is a common convention to use
and I deliberately don't limit this to post requests here and I will show you why in a second
so please make sure you use use here and then you use that graphql http method which is provided by
express graphql and you pass a javascript object to it to configure it. Now this needs two items to work.
The first is the schema
and for that we need to import the schema which we export in the schema.js file,
so here I'll import graphql schema by requiring it from graphql schema and I need to import my
graphql resolver by importing it from the resolvers file in the graphql folder.
Now we can go down and use the graphql schema here as the schema
and we also need to set the root value which now points at our resolver,
so this is now the graphql resolver.
With this setup, we can start our node server here and now let's try this out.
You might remember that we have to send post requests right,
so let's use postman for testing. There
I'll send a request to localhost 8080/graphql and that should be a post request.
Now in the body of that request, we send some json data that describes our query,
so we set this to raw application json
and here, you send data like this.
You send a javascript object with a query key and this does not mean that we send a query and not
mutation,
it simply is something which the express graphql package will look for. Inside of these curly braces,
you now write the real query
but actually here this is a string
and then the value here between double quotation marks is your graphql query expression
and there, you add curly braces and in-between, the name of the query you want to target
and if we have a look at our schema, we see that we have a hello query. So we can target
hello here and hello
returns us test data which has text and views.
Now we need to define which data we want to get back for that query and therefore after the name of
the query,
we add another pair of curly braces and in-between, we list the properties, the fields we want to get
back for that query,
we simply separate them with blanks.
So here I could get my text for example but not the views. If I now hit send,
indeed you should get hello world here
and if you add a whitespace and then views, you will get the views too
and this shows you the flexibility already.
It's one and the same endpoint but we define which data we want to get on the frontend
and it's important to understand that we don't filter the data on the frontend, it gets filtered on
the server by express graphql
in our case which does the heavy lifting here and we simply define our schema and the resolver.
In the resolver,
we return all the data but then graphql on the server will filter out just the data that was
requested by the client.
This is how graphql works in a nutshell,
let's now see how we can add a mutation.